1. The top 10 relevant docs for "Mexico economy" with cosin similarity.
	(Order by relevance)
	
778660 0.5916656597808024
642999 0.5721629937199303
435250 0.5371814367435075
439849 0.52899030152695
223994 0.5233039159241456
224414 0.5233039159241456
675857 0.5214468593589978
662213 0.5141416600066598
499470 0.5114479680416014
439221 0.5113192182525734

2. Their content (Order by docID number)

223994	223994	Mexico's economy has turned the corner and the country is now looking to boost its trade links with the booming economies of Asia, Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo said on Thursday. "After the peso crisis of 1995, the Mexican economy has now turned the corner," Zedillo told reporters at a breakfast meeting at the end of his three day visit to Singapore. The peso began crashing in 1994 as foreign investors withdrew their funds en masse from Mexico on concern over its economy. Mexico was kept afloat by a massive loan operation led by the United States and the International Monetary Fund which raised nearly US$50 billion, but was plunged into recession. Saying Mexico faced a difficult and complex situation in 1995 during which discipline and austere fiscal and monetary policy had to be applied, Zedillo added, "It is now clear that the programme was successful." "We now have an economy in full recovery." He added that economic growth for Mexico for 1996 would be close to four percent compared with forecasts of around three percent at the beginning of the year. On the inflation front Zedillo said, "It is still high by any reasonable standards." Year-on-year inflation in Mexico stands at nearly 30 percent, but Zedillo noted this is still half the 1995 rate. Zedillo said Mexico was also reaping the benefits of an earlier policy of structural reforms of the economy. For example, in March of 1995 Mexico introduced "a totally new telecommunications law" to allow the privatisation and corporatisation of the telecommunications industry. "We wanted to transfer recovery into a proper and sustained economic growth," he said. He added that today, "We are forecasting for 1997, GDP growth of at least four percent. Some people tell us that we are being very conservative...but I'd rather be on the wrong side of the forecast, that is on the low side, as opposed to...being accused of having exaggerated," he added. Zedillo said Mexico will continue to pursue closer economic ties with its Latin American neighbours but is also very keen on expanding links with Asian nations. "Naturally we should not restrict ourselves to those markets that are close to us...we have to pay more attention to the opportunities that are contained in the fastest growing region in the world -- namely Asia," Zedillo said. "We have taken a decision to move closer to Asia...we have decided to pursue a very active policy at the diplomatic and also at the economic level to have a more dynamic interaction with the Asian economies," he added. He said this could not be achieved overnight. "After all countries such as Japan have had their operations in our economy for a long time." But he was optimistic trade links would grow in the coming years. "Promoting that is the main reason I am here," he added.
224414	224414	Mexico's economy has turned the corner and the country is now looking to boost its trade links with the booming economies of Asia, Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo said on Thursday. "After the peso crisis of 1995, the Mexican economy has now turned the corner," Zedillo told reporters at a breakfast meeting at the end of his three day visit to Singapore. The peso began crashing in 1994 as foreign investors withdrew their funds en masse from Mexico on concern over its economy. Mexico was kept afloat by a massive loan operation led by the United States and the International Monetary Fund which raised nearly US$50 billion, but was plunged into recession. Saying Mexico faced a difficult and complex situation in 1995 during which discipline and austere fiscal and monetary policy had to be applied, Zedillo added, "It is now clear that the programme was successful." "We now have an economy in full recovery." He added that economic growth for Mexico for 1996 would be close to four percent compared with forecasts of around three percent at the beginning of the year. On the inflation front Zedillo said, "It is still high by any reasonable standards." Year-on-year inflation in Mexico stands at nearly 30 percent, but Zedillo noted this is still half the 1995 rate. Zedillo said Mexico was also reaping the benefits of an earlier policy of structural reforms of the economy. For example, in March of 1995 Mexico introduced "a totally new telecommunications law" to allow the privatisation and corporatisation of the telecommunications industry. "We wanted to transfer recovery into a proper and sustained economic growth," he said. He added that today, "We are forecasting for 1997, GDP growth of at least four percent. Some people tell us that we are being very conservative...but I'd rather be on the wrong side of the forecast, that is on the low side, as opposed to...being accused of having exaggerated," he added. Zedillo said Mexico will continue to pursue closer economic ties with its Latin American neighbours but is also very keen on expanding links with Asian nations. "Naturally we should not restrict ourselves to those markets that are close to us...we have to pay more attention to the opportunities that are contained in the fastest growing region in the world -- namely Asia," Zedillo said. "We have taken a decision to move closer to Asia...we have decided to pursue a very active policy at the diplomatic and also at the economic level to have a more dynamic interaction with the Asian economies," he added. He said this could not be achieved overnight. "After all countries such as Japan have had their operations in our economy for a long time." But he was optimistic trade links would grow in the coming years. "Promoting that is the main reason I am here," he added.
435250	435250	Deputy U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers warned lawmakers on Wednesday against decertifying Mexico as an ally in the war against drugs, saying that it would hurt Mexico's economy. "The impact would not be salutary," Summers said in prepared testimony before a Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee. He said that decertification could sap international confidence in Mexico and threaten the country's economic recovery.   "If confidence were to weaken and ... capital were to dry up, Mexico's economy would be threatened," Summers said. "The peso would come under renewed pressure (and) interest rates would rise." The United States as well as Mexico would be hurt if that came about, he said. U.S. exports to its neighbor would fall and illegal immigration from Mexico into the United States would surge, Summers said. But he said that decertification would not trigger a debt default by Mexico now because the country has resolved many fundamental problems.   A House of Representatives committee voted last week to overturn President Clinton's finding that Mexico is fully cooperating in the anti-drug war but to waive imposition of sanctions against the Mexican government. "Certification with a waiver would be little less damaging than full decertification," Summers said. It would spare Mexico any cutoff of U.S. financial assistance but that help is very small and not economically significant, he said. "The true damage would come from undercutting our support for those in Mexico committed to reform and from undermining investor confidence," Summers said.   Mexico announced on Monday the enactment of new anti-money laundering regulations. Summers said the United States was still reviewing those regulations but added that its early assessment indicates that the new rules would require banks to report suspicious transactions as well as all currency transactions over $10,000. He listed a number of steps that Mexico has taken over the past year to combat the trade in illegal drugs. "We recognize, however, that there are shortcomings along with the successes," he said. "We share the committee's concern that corruption at both high and low levels continues to threaten the integrity of Mexican anti-narcotics efforts," he added.
439221	439221	Mexico stood ready to retaliate on Thursday if the United States censured its drug-fighting efforts and ruled out any concessions to win "certification" as a U.S. ally in the war on drugs. Investor nervousness over the process has sent shockwaves through Mexico's financial markets. Commercial, trade and investment concerns are perceived to have weighed heavily on the White House decision last week to back Mexico despite opposition in Congress, analysts said. In strident comments just before a feared U.S. House of Representatives vote on Mexico's drug record, Foreign Minister Jose Angel Gurria said Mexico would never accept conditions sought by a House committee for Mexico to win approval. "Mexico will not accept any conditions nor much less the fact that any country will try to judge ours on a matter that needs to be shared," Gurria told Radio Red in a telephone interview from Japan, where he is travelling with Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo. The House was set to vote on Thursday on whether to overturn President Bill Clinton's decision that Mexico was fully cooperating in the drugs war. A Clinton aide said the president would veto any move to deny Mexico certification. The House was considering imposing conditions on Mexico in exchange for certification such as allowing U.S. warships to patrol Mexican waters, permitting U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration agents in Mexico to carry guns and demanding the extradition to the United States of Mexican drug kingpins. Mexicans, always concerned about U.S. domination, could never accept such conditions and officials are incensed by the implications of the vote. A resolution of disapproval by Congress would be a diplomatic black eye for the country, even if it carried no sanctions. "President Zedillo has said that if out of this process comes an internal (U.S.) law that affects the dignity and sovereignty of Mexico the Mexican government will react at the right moment and with the energy that the case merits," Gurria said. Mexico's stock market and the peso took a beating in early trade on Thursday, largely because of the certification issue, traders said. Investor confidence in Mexico was widely seen as hanging on the Clinton administration's decision to stand by Zedillo, especially since Mexico is just now recovering from the economic crisis in 1995, largely because of Clinton's bold moves to shore up the Mexican economy during hard times. "The whole (certification) process seems to be unnerving," Lars Schonander, chief analyst for Santander Investments in Mexico City, told Reuters. "It's very definitely negative for the markets. Even if you get decertification without (economic) penalites, it'll still negatively affect perceptions of Mexico even though there is no real economic or financial impact." Mexico has always won U.S. certification in the past but its drugs record was blackened in February when its anti-narcotics chief was arrested on charges he took bribes from a drug baron in exchange for protecting him. Clinton has said the Mexican government was tackling the problem and administration officials privately have repeated their confidence in the honesty of Zedillo even if some below him are corrupt.
439849	439849	The House of Representatives prepared to vote on Thursday on whether to overturn a finding that Mexico is cooperating in the war on drugs, amid warnings that such an action could spark economic turmoil and a political backlash in Mexico. Looking for a way out of a political battle with President Bill Clinton, House Republican majority leaders were set to propose delaying "decertification" for 90 days to give Democrat Clinton time to get "reliable assurances of substantial progress" in Mexico's drug-fighting efforts. That compromise was being offered as an amendment to a resolution that would overturn Clinton's recent decision to certify Mexico as a drug-war ally while also softening that blow by waiving required economic sanctions. Clinton has threatened to veto any such Congressional move against Mexico. He has been focusing his pressure on the Senate, where some members were moving towards a milder response to Mexico's perceived failure to deal with a huge drug trade that flows its long, barren border with the southwestern United States. Any House decision would require Senate approval as well. But there were deep divisons on policy toward Mexico in the House too, as indicated by the narrow margin -- 214-208 -- by which it cleared procedural rules at the start of debate. The U.S. political dispute arose last month when Mexico jailed its top drug-war official, Gen. Jesus Gutierrez Rebollo, on charges he was in the pay of a Mexican drug lord. His arrest was announced on Feb. 18 as Clinton was weighing whether to re-certify Mexico as an anti-drug ally, which he did. The arrest caused an uproar in Congress, where critics said it showed drug traffickers had penetrated Mexico's government. But the Clinton administration insists Mexico has improved its anti-drug performance. It warns that overturning the president's Feb 28 certification would undermine Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo's ability to make progress on drug control, with dire political and economic risks. Assistant Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers told senators on Wednesday that "we need to face the real possibility that investors will lose confidence in Mexico, and we have to assume the markets will also recognise that risk." Summers said Mexico would have no trouble meeting its capital needs if global capital markets kept their confidence in it, but he added: "If that confidence were to weaken and that capital were to dry up, Mexico's recovery would be threatened." Washington had to step in with billions in financial aid to its southern neighbour in early 1995 after investors lost confidence in Mexico and there was a run on the peso. Sen. John McCain, a Republican from the Mexican-border state of Arizona and one of those looking for a compromise, said on Thursday: "Who is to say that if we vote to decertify Mexico there won't be an anti-American backlash in Mexico?" He and others said that could include expelling U.S. narcotics agents from Mexico. In a sign of just such a backlash, Mexican Foreign Minister, Jose Angel Gurria, said on Thursday that Mexico would never accept conditions sought by Congress for Mexico to win U.S. approval of its drug-fighting efforts. "President Zedillo has said that if out of this process comes an internal (U.S.) law that affects the dignity and sovereignty of Mexico the Mexican government will react at the right moment and with the energy that the case merits," Gurria said in Mexico City. In a bid to avoid a rupture in U.S.-Mexican relations, U.S. House leaders were offering a compromise which would effectively suspend decertification for 90 days and scrap it completely if Clinton reported to Congress that Mexico had given reliable assurances of major progress in specific anti-drug areas. These areas included allowing U.S. law enforcement officers in Mexico to carry arms -- something Mexico only this week refused to do -- as well as concrete efforts to eliminate official corruption, permission for U.S. overflights and commitments to extradite wanted drug traffickers to the United States. Efforts to find a still milder solution gained impetus in the Senate Thursday when a bipartisan group including McCain and other border-state Republicans proposed a non-binding resolution to avoid a vote on decertification altogether. It called on Clinton and Mexico to strengthen efforts to reduce drug trafficking and use, and urged Mexico to dismantle drug cartels and extradite indicted drug traffickers.
499470	499470	U.S. Comerica Inc. plans to open a bank branch in Mexico with initial capital stock of 150 million pesos, the Mexican government said on Thursday. Mexico's Finance Ministry said in the Official Gazette it granted permission for the company to establish a Mexico City branch of the bank, to be known as Comerica Bank Mexico S.A. ((--Mexico newsroom +525 728 9562))
642999	642999	The United States is confident that Mexico's economy is healthy, U.S. Ambassador to Mexico James Jones said on Thursday. "We have great confidence in Mexico's future, in its economy. We think that Mexico's economy now has solid bases and should have growth in the coming years in the range given by (Finance) Secretary (Guillermo) Ortiz," Jones said. Ortiz and President Ernesto Zedillo said earlier this week that average annual gross domestic product (GDP) growth would be five percent through the year 2000. Some analysts have called the estimates overly optimistic. Jones also defended the relationship between the United States and Mexico. "In every situation there is bad or imprecise information and many poor interpretations of Mexico in the United States and vice versa," he said. Mexicans were enraged earlier this year over the U.S. Congress' criticism of its cooperation in efforts against drug trafficking. The review was part of a certification process Mexicans find offensive. ((--Timna Tanners, Mexico City newsroom +525 728-7903)).
662213	662213	Environmentalists on Sunday called Mexico's decision to ban the pesticide DDT within 10 years a bittersweet victory and a reminder that harmful pesticides are still widely used here. They said the move was too little, too late, and doubted whether there are sufficient controls in Mexico to assure that produce is no longer bathed in dangerous chemicals. Mexico agreed to gradually phase out DDT during a meeting in Pittsburgh on Friday of the Council of the Commission for Environmental Cooperation, which was created under the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) with the United States and Canada. DDT, which is believed to cause cancer and is known to kill birds and other wildlife, was outlawed in the United States in 1973 but is still used widely in Mexico to kill malaria-carrying mosquitos and other insects in agriculture. "How is it possible that they've given us a term of 10 more years to continue dying?" Maria Estela Gonzalez de Villarreal, Mexico City president of the Green Ecologist Party of Mexico, told Reuters in a telephone interview. "I know that it is commonly used even though the whole world knows its dangerous and has consequences," she said. Officials with the Environment and Agriculture ministries were unavaible for comment over the weeekend. The Mexican newspaper Uno Mas Uno reported that the Mexican delegation in Pittsburgh admitted that the United States and Canada pressured Mexico into the ban, and that Mexico would receive financial help from its NAFTA partners to phase out DDT. Mexico's Group of 100 environmental organisation claims DDT is widely sprayed in Mexico City parks to kill mosquitos, harming children at the same time. "More than anything it's a business for certain influential people with good contacts in the government," Homer Aridjis, Mexico's most prominent environemntalist and leader of the Group of 100, told Reuters. He discarded the argument that Mexico is too poor to ban harmful pesticides, saying, "There is always a social excuse here to justify negative things. Now we need more controls (on pesticides) in Mexico." Despite his scepticism over Mexico's ability to curtail harmful pesticide use, Aridjis said the agreement in Pittsburgh was "very important."
675857	675857	More than two years into the recovery from Mexico's December 1994 peso crash, the main concerns of business leaders in Mexico are economic and political instability, recent studies show. According to a survey of 405 members of the American Chamber of Commerce in Mexico, key factors inhibiting investment in Mexico, were "economic instability and uncertainty" and "political and social instability and uncertainty."   They said Mexico remained an attractive business option because of its links with the United States both geographically and via the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The "size and potential of the marketplace" and the "low cost of labor" were considered Mexico's principal benefits. The AmCham's 40-page report had been scheduled to be released just before President Bill Clinton's visit to Mexico in early May, but it was delayed, some suspected, because the timing was considered too sensitive.   It comes out in the run-up to key congressional, gubernatorial and Mexico City mayoral elections on July 6, that are expected to threaten the decades-old dominion of the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI). Foreign investors are closely watching the elections, fearing economic reforms could be blocked if the PRI loses its 68-year majority in the Chamber of Deputies. The latest opinion polls predict the PRI will beat out the competition, but it is not fully clear that it will keep its majority.   Such political uncertainties, a steep tax burden and government red tape have spurred many companies to move their business elsewhere, the study said. "Although Mexico cannot win all of the projects for which it is considered, it has already lost important amounts of investment to other countries which either presented more favorable conditions or incentives than Mexico," it said. Almost 20 percent of firms said that from 1993 to 1996 they decided to take investment projects that could have gone to Mexico to other countries.   "From the group of firms surveyed, $3.04 billion of investment projects were lost to other countries," the report said. This compares to a total investment in Mexico of $11.7 billion in Mexico by the AmCham firms. Mexico was passed over in favor of investments in the United States, Brazil, China, Argentina and Venezuela. The study provided suggestions for keeping investment in Mexico. "Fiscal incentives will stimulate a more competitive and attractive business environment," the study concluded.   "(Bureaucracy) is an oft-heard complaint in Mexico, but one which the public sector has often referred to as too overwhelming to address," it added. Some of the report's conclusions were backed up by other studies released recently. The Miami-based Strategic Research Corp ranked Mexico the Latin American country with the third highest political risk, after Venezuela and Nicaragua. Jay Pelosky, strategist at investment bank Morgan Stanley Dean Witter wrote in a report on Friday that, "The biggest risks, in our view, are urban violence, or fraudulent elections, neither of which we expect." ((-- Mexico City newsroom +525 728-7903))
778660	778660	Mexico may face an impasse during thorny negotiations over the 1998 budget and other issues when its divided Congress meets for the first time, U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers said Tuesday. During a two-day visit to Mexico, Summers said he was pleased with Mexico's progress in moving toward a true multiparty system, after the country's landmark July 6 elections stripped the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) of a seven-decade majority in the lower house.   Mexican financial markets have surged since the elections, but some analysts fear that the country's inexperience with multiparty rule may bring deadlock or backsliding on reform after Congress convenes in September. "Multipartisanship obviously offers opportunities to cement consensus more formally around sound policy, but it also carries with it the risk of impasse," the senior Treasury official said when asked whether protracted congressional negotiations, such as over Mexico's 1998 budget, might loom as a potential stumbling block for the markets.   "Markets will obviously be watching developments in Mexico very closely," Summers said at a media briefing. "(But) it would be a serious error to suppose multipartisanship was inherently more risky or divisive than we've seen elsewhere." Based on U.S. experience, he said there was no reason why a divided Congress could not have a vigorous debate on the economy, nor why that should undermine economic stability. He conceded that markets often changed course abruptly, but he said Mexico had taken measures to help protect itself against the volatility of capital flows.   "Markets over time do tend to move with fundamentals, but you have a lot of swings reflecting changes in judgment," he said. "The important fact is that Mexico has lengthened the maturity of its debt and accumulated substantial international reserves, and it has worked down its short-term liabilities coming due." Summers -- who played a key role in constructing the U.S. aid package that helped bail Mexico out of its 1994 devaluation crisis -- said his two-day visit came at an important political moment for Mexico.   "This is a juncture when the political environment in Mexico has been profoundly altered to one requiring multiparty decision-making, and at a juncture where Mexico is creating long-term and substantial growth," he said. To be sure, he conceded the recovery was taking time to filter down to the pockets of ordinary Mexicans, whose impatience with the pace of economic improvement and the depth of recession hurt the PRI at the polls last month.   "The shock in 1994 and 1995 was a profound one, and I think the financial system and its problems have tended to make it difficult for smaller businesses to attract capital on a large scale, and that has tended to slow the economy down," he said. But he said Washington was encouraged by Mexico's growth rate, which would soon allow the benefits of recovery to be felt more widely. Summers said on Monday in a speech there was no reason why Mexico's economy should not grow by five percent or more, as the government has targeted. Still, he warned that Mexico needed to remain on guard, even though the economy has enjoyed substantial capital inflows amid positive sentiment characteristic of the middle of Mexico's six-year presidential term. "Clearly the challenge for policy will be to remain vigilant to any imbalances that arise, and be prepared to adjust to any shocks that come rapidly and be conservative given the fact that sentiment can change quickly and brutally," he said. ((--Mexico City newsroom +525 728 7905))   .