1. The top 10 relevant docs for "world cup champion" with cosin similarity.
	(Order by relevance)
	
305050 0.5988061495808134
613284 0.5502685092658476
104276 0.5424475985659861
581879 0.5399635130547401
284960 0.5343546504613854
329740 0.5228237611281917
446217 0.5224007893542174
445347 0.5175528056309503
724151 0.5162717917461822
271952 0.5114069075562613

2. Their content (Order by docID number)

104276	104276	Algerian clubs CR Belouizdad and JS Kabylie make a double assualt on Africa's two leading club competitions on Friday in the wake of a revival in the north African country's soccer fortunes. Both teams play at Algiers' July 5th stadium in their respective semifinal first-leg matches, less than a week after the Algerian national team hammered the Ivory Coast 4-1 at the same venue in an African Nations' Cup qualifying tie. In an unprecedented move for African soccer, JS Kabylie will host Nigeria's Shooting Stars in the first match of the afternoon in the African Champions' Cup followed immediately afterwards by Belouizdad's Cup Winners' Cup meeting wih Sodigraf of Zaire. Both Algerian clubs start as favourites in their games, coming just months after the country's surprise elimination from the World Cup which led to wholesale changes in the Algerian soccer federation. JS Kabylie, who elected not to defend their Cup Winners' Cup title in order to chase a third Champions' Cup victory, are placing their faith in striker Hakim Medane, recently returned from a five-year career in Portugal. Medane, 30, returned to Algeria in the off-season after spells with Salgueiros and Familicao and made an immediate impact with goals in the quarter-final tie against Angola's Petro Atletico last month. Medane replaces another veteran Algerian international, Djamel Menad, who was JSK's hero in the Cup Winners' Cup last year but has since joined new champions USM Algiers. JSK also have a new coach in Brahim Ramdani, formerly with USM Harrach. Belouizdad were also heavily involved in the off-season transfer market but lost more than they gained with the departure of international defender Mourad Slatni to neighbouring Tunisia and Abderrazek Dahmani to Mouloudia Algiers. But they should still be too strong for the unfashionable Zairians, who beat Nigerian second division Katsina United 2-0 on aggregate in the previous round. Tunisia's CS Sfaxien host Egypt's Zamalek in the other Champions Cup semifinal tie on Saturday while another Egyptian team, Arab Contractors, are at home to Canon Yaounde of Cameroon in the Cup Winners' Cup on Friday. Confederation of African Football (CAF) Cup holders Etoile Sahel host Vita Club of Zaire in the continuing defence of their title while the other CAF Cup semifinal, first-leg match sees Kawkab Marrakesh hosting Kenya Breweries. Arab-speaking north African countries, who had their strangehold on the African club competitions broken last year, are again handily placed to sweep the boards. They have three Champions' Cup semifinalists and two teams in each of the Cup Winners' Cup and CAF Cup final four. The second legs of all the semifinal ties will be played on the weekend of October 25-27.
271952	271952	Egyptian clubs Zamalek and Arab Contractors will meet in the African Super Cup in Cairo on February 14, the Confederation of African Football (CAF) announced on Sunday. This is the second time that two Egyptian clubs will be contesting the annual match between the winners of the African Champions' Cup and the African Cup Winners' Cup. Zamalek beat Cairo rivals Al Ahli 1-0 in the 1994 match in Johannesburg, South Africa and return this time as recent winners of the Champions' Cup. Zamalek beat Nigeria's Shooting Stars on post-match penalties earlier this month to win a record fourth Champions' Cup title while Contractors scored a handsome 4-0 aggregate win over Sodigraf of Zaire in the Cup Winners' Cup final. The match will be played at the 80,000-capacity Nasser stadium.
284960	284960	Following is a brief profile of the winner of a women's World Cup giant slalom on Friday. Name: Sabina Panzanini Age: 24 Nationality: Italian Overall World Cup wins: 3 - giant slalom: Alta Badia (94), Park City (96), Maribor (97) Other feats - Panzanini has been a regular on the World Cup circuit since 1993, mostly overshadowed by compatriot Deborah Compagnoni, a world and double Olympic champion. Suffered from terrible back troubles after capturing maiden World Cup victory and followed doctors' advice to lose weight.
305050	305050	The Central African Republic and Niger have been disqualified from this year's African club competitions after their federations failed to pay annual fees, the Confederation of African Football (CAF) said on Tuesday. Both countries missed Friday's payment deadline and will not be allowed to field teams in this year's African Champions Cup, African Cup Winners' Cup or CAF Cup. There have also been withdrawals by Swaziland from the African Champions Cup and Mozambique's Maxaquene from the African Cup Winners' Cup, but CAF have allowed late entries from Tanzania. CAF have also allowed South Africa to change their representatives after Kaizer Chiefs withdrew from the Champions Cup for financial reasons. Orlando Pirates will take their place in the Champions Cup for a third successive appearance while Jomo Cosmos will go into the Cup Winners' Cup, CAF said.
329740	329740	Profiles of the joint winners of a women's World Cup downhill on Friday: Name: Heidi Zurbriggen Age: 29 Nation: Switzerland Previous World Cup wins: 2 downhills - Lillehammer 1996, Bad Kleinkirchheim 1997. Other facts: Sister of former men's Olympic and world champion Pirmin Zurbriggen. Had reputation as a second-placer before first World Cup win, with five seconds in the World Cup, a world championships silver in 1989 giant slalom and another silver in 1996 super-G. Considered retiring last season. Name: Isolde Kostner Age: 21 Nation: Italy Previous World Cup wins: 2 downhills - Garmisch 1994, Cortina 1996. Other facts: Double Olympic bronze medallist and reigning super-G world champion. Her first win at Garmisch was overshadowed by tragedy when Austria's Ulrike Maier died in a crash on the course. Her father is a woodcarver in Val Gardena and Kostner often helps him to paint the statues he makes.
445347	445347	Following is a brief profile of the winner of the World Cup men's slalom at the World Cup Finals on Sunday: Name: Finn Christian Jagge Age: 30 Nationality: Norwegian World Cup wins: 3 slaloms. Madonna (91), Kranjska Gora (94), Vail (97) Other feats: finished third in 1997 season slalom standings. won slalom gold at the 1992 Olympics. Been racing on the World Cup circuit since 1986. Has finished second once and third four times in his World Cup slalom career. Highest overall World Cup standing for the Oslo native was 14th in 1992.
446217	446217	Following are some notable moments from the World Cup Finals that ended the Alpine skiing season on Sunday: -- Luc Alphand of France becomes first speed specialist to win the World Cup overall championship. Adds Super-G title to his third successive downhill championship. -- Pernilla Wiberg of Sweden wins downhill race to become only active woman skier with World Cup wins in all four disciplines. Her final overall points total of 1,960 is a World Cup record. -- German women, bolstered by a one-two-three sweep in the Super-G, claim their first Nation Cup title. -- Donna Compagnoni becomes first Italian woman to win a World Cup title when she crowns brilliant giant slalom season with victory -- Andreas Schifferer of Austria (Super-G) and Lara Magoni of Italy (slalom) post their first World Cup victories. -- Wiberg and Magoni finish in a dead-heat to share victory in the slalom, a first in World Cup history -- Swiss giant slalom ace Michael von Gruenigen wins his fourth World Cup race of season to repeat as champion -- Austrian Renate Goetschl (downhill) and German Hilde Gerg (Super-G) clinch their first season titles -- Norway's Lasse Kjus, the 1996 overall champion, pulls out of downhill to protest scheduling that has him competing in three continents (Europe, Asia, North America) in three weeks -- 30-year-old Finn Christian Jagge of Norway wins the slalom for his first victory in three seasons -- World downhill champion Hilary Lindh of the United States announces her retirement
581879	581879	Along with the World Cup and the European Champions Cup, the English F.A. Cup Final is revered by fans throughout the world as one of soccer's great showpiece occasions. But a viewpoint, first expressed in the early 1990s, is gaining popularity. It is this: How much longer will the F.A. Cup, the oldest competition in world soccer, retain its undoubted allure and glamour? The issue was first raised in 1993 by the English fanzine When Saturday Comes, which argued that the Cup Final was one of many end-of-season matches played by club teams at Wembley Stadium whereas once it was the only one. Because the League Cup Final and promotion play-offs were now played under the Twin Towers, the special nature of the Cup Final was being undermined. Now, in 1997, its position is under threat from a totally different source -- the expansion of the European Cup, or as UEFA, European soccer's ruling body, likes it to be known, the Champions League. The argument runs that the European Cup-Champions League is now a far more lucrative money-spinner than the F.A. Cup Final can ever be, and that clubs in the major European countries would rather finish second in their domestic league championships than win their domestic cup competitions and go into the far less prestigious Cup Winners Cup. Consequently they are more likely to field weaker teams in Cup matches, devaluing their cup competitions by concentrating more on their league programmes. In Italy, for example, the Coppa Italia has always been a poor second to the league, but until very recently the English Cup was perceived as being sacrosanct and held a revered place in fans' affections around the world. Saturday's match is being televised live or on tape delay to 184 countries worldwide and more than one billion people will see the goals that eventually decide the outcome of the match between Chelsea and Middlesbrough. But the people who run the clubs, the chairmen and the managers, may take a different viewpoint. Alex Ferguson, whose Manchester United side have just won the English League for the fourth time in five seasons, has fielded weakened teams in the English League Cup for the last three seasons. Does he dare do the same in the F.A. Cup ? In England the season's biggest crowds are often recorded at F.A. Cup matches. Even Manchester United, had an attendance of 55,342 for their fourth round match against poorly-supported Wimbledon in January -- their biggest crowd of the season apart from their Champions League match against Juventus. There is no doubt the Cup is part of the English social psyche, much as it has been since it first began to capture the public's imagination when it began in the 1871-72 season. Second Division Chesterfield's run to the semifinals this season galvanised the town in a way that nothing has done since the spire on the town's main church started to bend into a bizarre, crooked apparition 400 years ago. Fans who normally only watch matches on TV will travel the length and breadth of the country to go to a Cup match. Tottenham fans dress up as cockerels, Hereford fans as Bulls and Norwich fans have been known to don Canary outfits. And then travel on a train for three hours. It is the one competition in which fantasy regularly replaces reality. How else can Chesterfield's appearance in the semifinal be explained ? For that matter, how else can relegated Middlesbrough's appearance in the Cup Final be rationalised ? The F.A. Cup celebrates its 125th anniversary this year and is one of the great rallying points for fans around the world. In the United States and Canada, pubs and bars open for Cup Final breakfasts. In Australia, the Perth branch of the Western Australian Roof Drinking Association are famous for hoisting television sets on to the roofs of houses and holding special late-night Cup Final roof-drinking parties, watching live action from London 12,000 miles away, under southern skies. Just about every overseas player who comes to play in England says at their introductory news conference their dream is to play in the Cup Final at Wembley. The Cup has a very special place in the heart of all soccer fans and those men who now run European and English soccer know they have a duty to the fans to ensure it retains that place.
613284	613284	Almost  half of the German first division could be playing in European club competitions next season. Newly-crowned champions Bayern Munich and second-placed Bayer Leverkusen secured their places in the Champions' League in a decisive round of action at the weekend. At the moment European Cup finalists Borussia Dortmund, VfB Stuttgart, Bochum and defending champions Schalke will play in the UEFA Cup. If Stuttgart win the German Cup final and Dortmund clinch this week's European Cup final, the teams in sixth and seventh places in the 18-strong Bundesliga -- presently 1860 Munich and Karlsruhe with one game remaining -- will take their UEFA Cup places. Dortmund would then play in the Champions' League and Stuttgart in the European Cup Winners' Cup.
724151	724151	Olympic double sculls champion Agostino Abbagnale and his new partner Rossana Galtarossa won their semifinal at the inaugural Rowing World Cup on Saturday. The pair set a Rotsee course record of six minutes 12.43 seconds as the strong Italian team put four crews into Sunday's finals. The Italian men's lightweight coxless four, the men's lightweight double sculls and the men's quad sculls also qualified. On a day when new crews took centre stage, the United States men's quadruple sculls crew won the first semifinal in the fastest qualifying time in a race that squeezed out Belarus, current World Cup leaders. Two New Zealand World Cup debutants, single scullers Sonia Scown and Rob Waddell, both qualified for the finals from big entries. There were some big-name casualties in the men's sculls as only two from each of the three semifinals qualified. Quadruple sculls Olympic champion Andre Willms of Germany and Latvian Andris Reinholds, currently fourth in the World Cup standings, both failed to make the cut. World Cup leader Iztok Cop of Slovenia and the two finds of the season, Ibrahim Ali of Egypt and American Jamie Koven, went through. Ali was fastest overall and with the Egyptian finishing closer to Cop in every outing, the scene was set for a close final. The seemingly invincible Olympic champion Katya Khodotovitch of Belarus swept through her women's sculls semifinal, nearly two seconds ahead of Denmark's former world champion Trine Hansen. The fastest time came in the last of the three semifinals when New Zealander Scown pushed another former world champion, Sweden's Maria Brandin, all the way to the line. Germany, overall World Cup leaders after two events, have boats in nine of Sunday's 14 World Cup finals. They lead Britain, France and Romania.