3112	3112	South Africa's radical black Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) acknowledged on Tuesday that its guerrillas had targeted white civilians but said it made no apologies. PAC leader Clarence Makwetu told the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, headed by Archbishop Desmond Tutu, that the PAC regretted the August 1993 killing of American student Amy Biehl in Gugulethu black township outside Cape Town by youths allied to the organisation. Biehl was stabbed and stoned to death by a mob that attacked her car when she was dropping off friends in the township at the time of a teachers' strike. "This act occurred in the context of a strike for recognition by the South African Democratic Teachers' Union," Makwetu said. "To support the strike, an operation was launched to stop deliveries from towns into the townships. Although the PAC was not involved, the Pan Africanist Student Organisation (PASO) acted in solidarity with their teachers. They wrongly targeted and killed Amy Biehl," he said. "We expressed our regret and condolences to Amy Biehl's family in a letter to the U.S. ambassador (at the time). "We restate this position yet again through the truth commission. But misguided as the deed was, we support the amnesty applications of all those convicted and sentenced for the offence." Four PAC supporters have been jailed for 18 years each for killing Biehl, 26, from Newport Beach, California. Discussing the activities of the PAC's armed wing, the Azanian People's Liberation Army (APLA), Makwetu said "a new pattern arose in the 1990s where civilians within the white community were attacked". "The actual targets were decided by local commanders... Internally based operatives often made errors that APLA had earlier avoided." Makwetu described the killing of civilians as "departures which we as political leaders who declared war must and do take responsibility for". But he added: "We make no apologies. We have nothing to hide." The Truth and Reconciliation Commission this week is hearing submissions from political parties aimed at giving a broad perspective of their activities durig the apartheid years. The PAC broke away from the African National Congress in 1959 but never achieved the mass appeal of President Nelson Mandela's party. Less than two percent of South Africans voted for the PAC in the country's first all-race elections in April 1994. Police blamed APLA for a series of gun and grenade attacks in the years leading up to the election, including one on a Cape Town church service and others on white social gatherings. Makwetu said the PAC objected to the format of the truth commission because "our people who were forced to fight a war of liberation are being made to appear on the same platform as their aggressors". "Perpetrators of the apartheid crime against humanity as well as their victims are being equated," he said. The right-wing Freedom Front made its presentation to the commission on Monday and the National Party, led by former white president F.W. de Klerk, is due to present its submission on Wednesday. 
3116	3116	Former white president F.W. de Klerk appears before South Africa's "truth commission" on Wednesday as political parties strive to extract what propaganda value they can from the country's history of race war. De Klerk, who will speak for the National Party that introduced apartheid in 1948, has said party leaders will accept overall responsibility for "the many things that went wrong" with the policy. But he is likely to shift most of the blame onto his predecessors and cite the fact that barely a year after he took office he began in 1990 to dismantle apartheid -- freeing African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela as one of his first steps. He plans to start his presentation in 1652, the year the first white settlers arrived in the Cape, giving him an opportunity to comment that British colonialists were among the first to enforce racial discrimination in South Africa. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission is devoting all week to hearing from political parties how they saw the context of their actions during the apartheid era. The commission, chaired by Archbishop Desmond Tutu, is charged with establishing as full a picture as possible of South Africa's decades of racial hostility during which millions of blacks were forced to move to "homelands", hundreds of people were killed by police or guerrillas and countless more were tortured or jailed for their beliefs. Political parties which have made submissions so far include the right-wing Freedom Front and the radical black Pan Africanist Congress (PAC), both of which tried to score political points. The PAC, which won less than two percent of the vote in South Africa's first all-race election in 1994, sought to portray itself on Tuesday as a more important player in the liberation struggle than the ANC. Freedom Front leader General Constand Viljoen, a former defence force chief, acknowledged on Monday that Afrikaners had "invited" violent revolution by their actions but said their brutality in trying to crush it was provoked in part by their opposition to communism. ANC sources said Mandela's party, due to make its submission on Thursday, would object to any attempt to equate the morality of enforcing apartheid with that of resisting it. 
3145	3145	Tibet's spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, will meet South African President Nelson Mandela at his official residence in Cape Town on Thursday, a presidential spokesman said on Tuesday. The Dalai Lama is on a private visit to South Africa, hosted by the World Conference on Religion and Peace, and is scheduled to give lectures on peace in several centres around the country. Mandela's spokesman Parks Mankahlana said the two Nobel Peace laureates would meet for about half an hour to discuss various issues. He did not elaborate. The Dalai Lama told a news conference in Durban that Mandela's government could help to put pressure on China, which annexed Tibet in 1950, to negotiate the future of the country. "South Africa is now part of the world community. So when I appeal to the world community to please not forget us and to please try to bring people from China around the negotiation table...of course South Africa can be one of those important members," the Dalai Lama said. He said there was no conflict of interest between his struggle for his people's freedom from China and his religious belief. "I consider my involvement in the freedom struggle for Tibet to be part of my own spiritual practice because Tibetan freedom is very much linked with spirituality under the present circumstances," the Dalai Lama said. Mandela, whose government is under pressure from China to cut its ties with Taiwan, could court further controversy with Beijing by meeting the Buddhist leader. The Dalai Lama fled to India in 1959 after an abortive uprising against China's annexation and heads a Tibetan government-in-exile in the Himalayan Indian town of Dharamsala. Mandela inherited ties with Taiwan from the former apartheid regime in 1994. Both states were outcasts, largely shunned by the international community. But Beijing was no natural ally for his African National Congress during the fight against white rule. Moscow backed the ANC, so its arch-foe Beijing supported the rival Pan Africanist Congress which has now largely faded away. Taiwan however gave the ANC considerable support during the late stages of the struggle for majority rule. 
3158	3158	South Africa's radical black Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) on Tuesday acknowledged that its guerrillas targeted white civilians but said it made no apologies. PAC leader Clarence Makwetu told the Truth and Reconciliation Commission commission, headed by Archbishop Desmond Tutu, that the PAC regretted the 1993 killing of American student Amy Biehl in a black township outside Cape Town by youths allied to the organisation. Discussing the activities of the PAC's armed wing, the Azanian People's Liberation Army (APLA), Makwetu said "a new pattern arose in the 1990s where civilians within the white community were attacked". "The actual targets were decided by local commanders... operatives often made errors that APLA had earlier avoided." Makwetu described the killing of civilians as "departures which we as political leaders who declared war must and do take responsibility for". But he added: "We make no apologies. We have nothing to hide." The Truth and Reconciliation Commission is hearing submissions this week from political parties aimed at giving a broad perspective of their activities during apartheid. The PAC broke away from the African National Congress in 1959 but never achieved the mass appeal of President Nelson Mandela's party. Less than two percent of South Africans voted for the PAC in the country's first all-race elections in April 1994. Police blamed APLA for a series of bloody attacks in the years leading up to the election, including one on a Cape Town church service and others on white social gatherings. Makwetu said the PAC objected to the format of the truth commission because "our people who were forced to fight a war of liberation are being made to appear on the same platform as their aggressors". "Perpetrators of the apartheid crime against humanity as well as their victims are being equated," he said. The right-wing Freedom Front made its presentation to the commission on Monday and the National Party, led by former white president F.W. de Klerk, is due to present its submission on Wednesday. 
3175	3175	Former president F.W. de Klerk addresses South Africa's "truth commission" on Wednesday in a bid to explain why his National Party plunged the country into 46 years of apartheid misery. De Klerk, who acknowledged in 1990 that South Africa's race policies were untenable and began reforms that led to majority rule four years later, will present his party's overview of apartheid to Archbishop Desmond Tutu's Truth and Reconciliation Commssion. He said this week the presentation would take the long view, starting with the 1652 arrival of the Dutch ancestors of today's Afrikaners in Cape Town, site of the truth commission hearing. "I'm looking forward to the opportunity to...put what happened from our vantage point in the proper context," de Klerk said. "Part of that will also be to accept overall responsibility for many things which went wrong." Since it began work in April, Tutu's commission has heard a lengthy litany of what went wrong, ranging from torture to police hit-squad killings and burning tyre "necklace" murders. Harrowing testimony has been given by black survivors of the white minority government's campaign against the African National Congress -- which under President Nelson Mandela now rules the country -- and other liberation movements. But on Monday the commission heard bitter criticism of the National Party, which implemented apartheid in 1948, from de Klerk's fellow-Afrikaner, General Constand Viljoen. Viljoen, a former defence force chief who heads a right-wing party pressing for Afrikaner self-determination, began the series of party submissions to the commission by saying apartheid's foot soldiers should not get all the blame. "It is unfair that the operators be exposed as the chief perpetrators of atrocities when the politicians and strategy managers hide behind their status and positions," he said. "The masterminds behind this crucible of past iniquities more than anybody else should account for their schemes even if that brings political embarrassment to their parties today." De Klerk, who jointly won the Nobel peace prize with Mandela in 1993, is now trying to position his party as a credible opposition to the ANC, repeatedly disowning its past as the whites-only architect of apartheid. Most of the leaders of the party today are relative moderates while such apartheid stalwarts as Hendrik Verwoerd, John Vorster and P.W. Botha are dead or deep in retirement. Mandela's government set up the truth commission in the belief that it could heal the wounds of apartheid by exposing as full a picture as possible of the crimes and atrocities committed by all sides. 
5845	5845	Former South African president F.W. de Klerk formally apologised on Wednesday for the miseries of apartheid and said rogue security forces had committed atrocities, but that he had never issued an order to kill or torture. "I have already publicly apologised for the pain and suffering caused by former policies of the National Party...I reiterate these apologies today," de Klerk told Archbishop Desmond Tutu's Truth and Reconciliation Commission. De Klerk, whose National Party (NP) implemented apartheid in 1948 and began scrapping it 42 years later, made the apology during a three-hour summary of South Africa's race conflict intended to help the commission establish as full a picture of who did what, and why, during apartheid. "History has shown that as far as the policy of apartheid was concerned, our former leaders were deeply mistaken in the course upon which they embarked," said de Klerk, ousted by President Nelson Mandela's African National Congress (ANC) in South Africa's first all race election in April 1994. Addressing the evidence of hit-squad killings of black activists that has emerged since the collapse of apartheid, de Klerk acknowledged his government and previous ones had approved "unconventional" actions which "created the environment within which abuses and gross violations of human rights could take place". But he added: "I want to make clear that within my knowledge and experience (unconventional strategies) never included the authorisation of assassination, murder, torture, rape, assault or the like... "Nor did I individually directly or indirectly ever suggest, order or authorise any such action." De Klerk said some members of the security forces accused him of being a traitor for his dismantling of apartheid. "It has now become clear that certain elements misused state funds and were involved in unauthorised operations leading to abuses and violation of human rights," he said. About 20 ANC demonstrators picketed outside the building where the commission met but de Klerk evaded them by entering through an underground garage. ANC supporters in the packed public gallery of about 400 people jeered when de Klerk denied knowledge of a notorious hit-squad killing but Tutu admonished them to keep quiet or be thrown out. "I know how difficult it is to say 'I'm sorry' in public," Tutu told de Klerk at the end of his presentation. "We are sure it will have a significant impact." Tutu's deputy chairman, Alex Boraine, added: "I don't think anyone should underestimate the power of a former state president saying 'I'm sorry'." De Klerk said responsibility for what happened during apartheid lay with political leaders. "I accept such overall responsibility in respect of the period of my leadership," he said, but added that cabinet ministers should be held to account for specific actions only if such actions were executed "in terms of a reasonable interpretation" of cabinet instructions. The ANC is due to present its view of the apartheid struggle to Tutu on Thursday. 
5849	5849	President Nelson Mandela's African National Congress gives its version of history to South Africa's "truth commission" on Thursday in a presentation that will portray its anti-apartheid struggle as a "just war". The ANC submission to Archbishop Desmond Tutu's Truth and Reconciliation Commission will be presented by Deputy President Thabo Mbeki, who told reporters he would deal with such issues as "just war versus unjust war". "We want to concentrate on the broad issue, not get involved in individual events," he said. An ANC statement said the party, which came to power in the country's first all-race election in 1994, wanted peace and reconciliation to become the cornerstones of the new democracy. "At the core of the ANC submission is the indictment of the system of apartheid as a crime against humanity...The struggle against apartheid cannot therefore be equated with acts committed in defence of this repugnant system." The ANC's submission follows one on Wednesday by former president F.W. de Klerk, whose National Party introduced apartheid in 1948 and began dismantling it in 1990. De Klerk told the commission he did not agree that the ANC had been fighting a morally superior war. "I don't think that argument can apply to the father of a child killed by an (ANC) limpet mine. That child did not deserve to die and it remains an atrocity." Mbeki said he did not think de Klerk had addressed the main issue in South Africa's race war, the apparent fear on the part of whites that they would be swamped by black hordes. "The role of the truth commission should be to find ways of ensuring such fears don't arise again," he said. Mandela suggested setting up a truth commission in the early 1990s when reports emerged of human rights abuses committed in ANC military camps in exile. He said the abuses should be dealt with in the wider context of the struggle for and against apartheid. The ANC has acknowledged executing about 30 of its own members in the camps. The ANC statement said the movement was "honest enough to acknowledge that human rights abuses did occur, (but) these abuses did not occur within the framework of official policy". "The ANC trusts that at the end of the process of truth and reconciliation, South Africa will emerge victorious and better able to march to the future with confidence that never again will such abuses occur in our country." De Klerk apologised on Wednesday for the pain caused by apartheid and acknowledged that rogue members of the security forces committed abuses. 
5875	5875	President Nelson Mandela on Wednesday named Inkatha Freedom Party veteran Lionel Mtshali to replace Ben Ngubane as Minister of Arts, Culture, Science and Technology from September 1. Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi, leader of the conservative Zulu-based Inkatha, announced recently that Ngubane would be transferred to the provincial government of KwaZulu-Natal. Analysts said at the time that Buthelezi wanted Ngubane, who has won the admiration of the dominant African National Congress (ANC), to bolster his party's strength in the province, the only one of nine that it rules. Under the rules of an interim constitution guiding South Africa from white rule to full democracy by 1999, Inkatha is entitled to three of the 27 seats in Mandela's transitional government of national unity. Former President F.W. de Klerk's white-led National Party (NP) was entitled to a deputy president and six cabinet portfolios, but decided earlier this year to withdraw from the coalition at the end of June. 
5905	5905	One of the last chapters on South Africa's apartheid rule, a policy of racial segregation and oppression, was written on Wednesday when former president F.W. de Klerk apologised for past human rights violations. His Afrikaner-led National Party turned a tradition of racial inequality, during three centuries of Dutch and British colonial rule, into an official doctrine when it defeated more moderate parties in the whites-only general election in 1948. In 1949, restrictive laws underpinning apartheid -- an Afrikaner word meaning separateness -- began to be implemented. The four official race groups -- white, black, Indian and Coloured (mixed-race) -- had to live in separate areas, babies had to be registered by race, sex between whites and other races was banned and park benches, toilets and public facilities for races were segregated, with the best reserved for whites. In 1959 the government created 10 black "homelands", giving whites 87 percent of land and blacks the barren 13 percent. 1960 - Police killed 69 people in an anti-apartheid protest at Sharpeville, near Johannesburg. The government -- run by the National Party until 1994 -- banned black resistance groups. 1964 - Nelson Mandela and senior African National Congress associates were jailed for life for resisting apartheid. 1976 - Over 600 blacks died in a year-long uprising sparked by a Soweto student revolt against inferior apartheid education. 1986 - Emergency rule was declared. The U.S. Congress passed comprehensive sanctions, followed by many Western governments. 1989 - F.W. de Klerk replaced P.W. Botha as National Party leader and then president and won elections as a reformist. 1990 - De Klerk repudiated apartheid, unbanned some 30 black opposition groups and freed Mandela after 27 years in jail. 1991 - Apartheid laws and racist restrictions were repealed. Power-sharing talks started between the state and 16 anti-apartheid groups. 1992 - De Klerk won 70 percent in a referendum to test support among 3.3 million white voters for apartheid reforms. 1994 - Apartheid was given the final death blow when ANC won 62.65 percent of the vote in the first all-race elections. 1996 - Archbishop Desmond Tutu's Truth and Reconciliation Commission begins its task of revealing and healing the injustices of apartheid. South Africans acknowledge the wounds of apartheid and its economic iniquities will take decades, or even longer, to heal. 
5914	5914	White former president F.W. de Klerk appeared before South Africa's "truth commission" on Wednesday to begin a lengthy explanation of apartheid from the point of view of his National Party which imposed it. On his way to the Good Hope centre he drove past a score of black demonstrators carrying placards reading "Apartheid -- never again" and "How many people died during apartheid?"   Inside, he was greeted with loud applause from the 300-strong crowd, mostly party supporters. Former archbishop Desmond Tutu began proceedings with a prayer. The reformist de Klerk, who freed Nelson Mandela from jail in 1990 and smoothed the country's successful 1994 transition to democracy after 46 years of white minority rule, has said his party will accept the blame for "many things that went wrong". De Klerk said he planned to cover South Africa's history as far back as 1652 when the first white settlers arrived. South Africans, especially the victims of apartheid, were waiting to see if he would expose new truths about the past, say sorry for its wrongs, or salvage what propaganda value he could for his reformed party, which quit Mandela's coalition in June for a new life in opposition, from the history of race war. 
